Let's continue working
on our grid example
and learn how we can position items
wherever we want on the grid.
So right now,
all of our grid items
are laid out according to their source order.
So we start here in the beginning.
And then one, two,
three, four,
five, and six.
And that is because of CSS grid's
automatic placement algorithm.
And so the default behavior
is that the items are laid out
just like they are in the code,
which actually makes a lot of sense.
But now imagine that you actually have to place
a grid item somewhere else.
So let's position this first one here,
orange one, right here.
So right here in this grid cell.
So remember what a grid cell is.
It is the area between
two adjacent row and column lines, right.
So here we have the column line number two,
and our number three.
And here we have the row line number two,
and row line number three.
And so this area here
is called a cell.
So what we want to do now
is to put this item here,
this grid item, number one
into this cell, right.
And how can we do that?
Well that's where these numbers here
actually come into play.
So the column and the row line numbers.
So let's come here to our item number one
and let's define a couple of properties.
So we start with
grid-row-start.
And so that's the number of the row line
in which we want this to start.
So right now,
remember we want to put
this item here in this cell.
And so it starts here at line number two.
And so we simply put two.
All right.
And you already saw
that the element moved here to the second row, right.
So without even doing anything else.
But we can do grid-row-end
and set it to three.
So that's then a cleaner solution.
So with this code here,
we say that the item
should be placed in a cell
which starts by row line number two
and ends at row line number three.
Okay, and so already,
this item moved here to the second row.
And then the other items move up in the same order
in which they were before.
So two, three, four,
and then a number one,
and then five and six.
So that's again, the automatic placement algorithm here.
Now next,
and you can probably already guess,
is grid-column-start.
Okay, and so that's the number two as well.
So a number two,
and here we go.
So now it's exactly in the cell
that we wanted it to.
Just to finish this one here
and number three as well.
So it starts at row line number two and three
and also at column line number two and three.
And so now we've placed our item exactly in this grid cell.
Now this is a lot of code here to write.
And so there's actually a bit easier way to do it.
So let's just comment it here for the moment.
And instead,
we can simply write grid-row,
and then two and three.
And so this is where it starts
and where it ends.
Okay, so this is like a shorthand
for these two properties.
And then the same with the column,
grid-column,
two and three as well.
And so here we are back to the cell.
Okay, and now that you know how it works,
let's do the same for another one.
So let's position this number five item here
into this grid cell here.
So how do we do that?
Well, let's come here to number five
and then grid-row.
And which one is it now?
So remember right now it's here in the second row.
So between two and three.
But we want it to be between
two and one.
And two and one.
And that's it.
And now it moves of course here
to the first position.
Because we haven't yet specified the column.
So grid-column
three and four
as you can see here from these line number indicators.
And so that's why I was saying
that it's so important and so useful
to having these line numbers here
right with the dev tools.
So here with the inspector.
And that's just something that Google Chrome
doesn't do at the moment.
It probably will do sometime in the future.
But right now, only Firefox does this.
And that's exactly why we're using it.
Now if writing these two properties here
is still too much for you,
you can actually do it in also another way.
So let's comment this out again.
And remember how grid-row and grid-column
are just a shorthand for grid-row-start,
grid-row-end,
column-start,
and column-end.
But there's actually a shorthand
even for these two.
So we can say grid-area instead.
And then here we specify the line number
where we want it to start,
then the column number where we want it to start.
So that would be here, the number three, right.
And then the line where it ends
and the column where it ends.
So I think this is a bit confusing actually.
And so I personally do prefer
this way here of writing it out, okay.
And so in the future,
this is how I'm going to do it
instead of using the grid-area property.
But I just wanted to show you
that there is another way.
And there are actually more ways of positioning items.
But this one is the most straightforward
and the most easy to use, okay.
So again,
there will be other ways of positioning items
that I'm gonna show you later in the course.
But for now,
please just know that this is the easiest way.
And this is the one that I want you to understand right now.
Okay, and also you can understand this
even a bit better.
I want you to position one of these items
all by yourself
without looking at the code, okay.
So let's scroll down here a bit.
And now without looking at the code,
I want you to position this number six item right here.
Okay.
So you think you can do that?
Well, just pause the video,
and please try to do it on your own
without looking at the code.
Okay, so you managed to do that.
So here is the solution.
So grid-row is just one and two, right.
And so you already see it now moving up
to the first line.
And now for the column,
grid-column,
and two, three.
And here we go.
So now you know how to position these items
exactly where you want them.
But that's more.
We can actually do a lot more, okay.
So we can expand these elements here, for example,
over multiple rows or multiple columns.
So imagine we wanted to have this blue element here
spanning all over these two cells here.
So this entire area.
We can do that of course
also with grids.
And it's actually something really, really important.
So without that,
grids actually wouldn't make much sense.
So if you want to learn how to do that,
then just click on that next lecture.